 To replicate this bug you must have Site Administrator access to one of
the accounts on the server.  When you go into the Site Management for a
site
and select the User Management option, you get a list of the usernames
that
have been setup for that account.  The green pencil edit icon is a command
to execute the JavaScript function modify() and it passes the username as
the only variable into the function.  To properly execute a function from
the Location Bar in Netscape, the HTML page has to be the top frame.  I
simply opened the userList.html file in a new frame.  When you type
"javascript: modify( 'admin' );" into the Location Bar, the modify()
function returns a URL.  The URL returned when accessing it from my site
is
"http://207.153.19.154:81/cgi-bin/.cobalt/siteUserMod/siteUserMod.cgi?userna
me=admin&group=site151&949015199230".  This loads a standard Modify User
page for the "admin" account.  However, when you attempt to change this
information by clicking the "Confirm Modify" button, it returns a
JavaScript
error because the function that it calls upon is dependant on the frame
layout of the Site Management page.  To overcome this issue I simply
downloaded two HTML files to my hard disk.  One is the index.html file,
other other is the right.html file.  I basically changed the index.html
file
to call upon the URL's on my site and had it load the right.html file
locally off my hard disk.  I then changed the right.html file to load the
URL's on my site but changed the "main" frame source to
"http://207.153.19.154:81/cgi-bin/.cobalt/siteUserMod/siteUserMod.cgi?userna
me=admin&group=site151&949015199230" - the Modify User page for the
"admin"
account.  It then loads up with all the correct frames AND the Modify User
page for the "admin" account.  I very simply just enter a new password for
the user and click "Confirm Modify" and presto!  The admin password is
changed allowing me access to the Server Management page showing all the
server's clients, IP addresses, domain names, and ability to access all
the
client's contact people, telephone numbers, usernames, and passwords.  I
also could delete any sites/files or downloaded any sites/files.  I then
had
full access via FTP to the site showing the root directory of the server,
and the ability to delete any evidence via the /log/ directory.

    I hope this answers any of the questions you had, and the whole
process
took me under 5 minutes!

-- snip snip --

the users email address is skirkham@telusplanet.net if you have any
questions about it...

