		Vulnerability Report For Voyant Technologies Sonata 
				Conferencing product.

			         Larry W. Cashdollar 
		                     Vapid Labs

	
Date Published: 10/31/2000

Advisory ID: 10132000-01

CVE CAN: None currently assigned.

Title: Multiple Vulnerabilities found in Sonata teleconferencing
Application.

Class:  Design Error

Remotely Exploitable:  Yes

Locally Exploitable:  Yes

Vulnerability Description:

  Sonata is a teleconfrencing solution developed by Voyant Technologies.  
This advisory concerns the Sonata application server and bridge componet
of the Sonata package.  The application server is an Ultra Sparc 5 running
Solaris 2.x as required by Voyant technologies. The bridge is an IBM PC
running OS/2 Warp.  These hosts are usually built in house by Voyant
personnel and installed at customer locations by a field engineer.

  Six vulnerabilities have been found in the application server host and
Sonata package, they are categorized below:

	1) Reused default user accounts and passwords.

	2) Easily guessable passwords.

	3) Poor file permissions.

	4) Lack of host hardening. 

	5) X console authentication has been disabled.

        6) Hard coded default passwords.


Vulnerable Packages/Systems: Sonata v3.x on Solaris 2.x. 
                             Sonata bridge OS/2 Warp.


Solution/Vendor Information/Workaround: 

  The vendor is currently working on a solution.  See references section
for Vendor contact information.


Vendor notified on: 10/13/2000


Credits:

	This advisory was drafted with the help of the SecurityFocus.com
Vulnerability Help Team. For more information or assistance drafting
advisories please mail vulnhelp@securityfocus.com.

Voyant Technologies for responding.


Technical Description - Exploit/Concept Code:

I. Application Server, Solaris 2.x

  By using available default services on the host an attacker can
enumerate accounts. Using this easily obtainable account information
combined with poor password selection and weak file permissions a remote
attacker can gain root access.  The passwords guessed are the default for
_all_ installations of Sonata.

  By default xhost authentication is disabled allowing a remote attacker 
to log key strokes and capture screen shots of the X console. 

II. Bridging Server, OS/2 Warp.

  These default passwords are also re-used on the bridging host
(OS/2).  Which has telnet enabled for remote administration.


  I am not going to detail the exploit because the methods used to access
these systems are only the most basic information gathering techniques one
would use to audit a host.


References: 

 	Sonata product page.
	http://www.voyanttech.com/displaypage.cfm?pid=27&toppid=22 

	Security Focus website.  
	http://www.securityfocus.com
                                               
        Vapid Labs.
	http://vapid.betteros.org
	Email: Larry W. Cashdollar <lwc@vapid.betteros.org>


DISCLAIMER:

The contents of this advisory are copyright (c) 2000 Larry W. Cashdollar and
may be distributed freely provided that no fee is charged for this
distribution and proper credit is given.


Ver 2.3 10/23/2000
